=head1 NAME

Mac::Pasteboard::Droplet - How to write a droplet.

=head1 DETAILS

The editor that came with MacOS Perl (for Mac OS 9 and below) was able
to save your script as a droplet -- that is, an application that you
could run by dropping files onto it. When your script got control, the
paths to the dropped files were in @ARGV

Under Mac OS X you can get this functionality by wrapping your Perl
script in an Apple Script. The following example assumes you want to
wrap a Perl script named droplet.PL in an application called
PerlDroplet. It works because a Mac OS X application bundle is simply a
directory whose contents are known to the system.

=over

=item 1. Run the Script Editor, which is found in /Applications/AppleScript/

=item 2. Paste the text of the Apple Script as it appears below into the editor.

=item 3. Save the script as an Application Bundle named PerlDroplet.

=item 4. Copy your Perl script to directory PerlDroplet.app/Contents/Resources/.

=back

Yes, this will work if you move PerlDroplet somewhere else.

The 'do shell script' directive used to get the Perl script to run will
actually work on any command that /bin/sh can handle. This means you
need a shebang line in your script, or you need to explicitly run Perl.
The do shell script is the equivalent of Perl's back tick or qx{}
operators; anything the command writes to standard out is returned to
the Apple Script.

The environment your script sees is fairly minimal. Specifically, you
will not see anything you defined in your .profile or .bash_profile
file. You will, however, see anything you define in
~/.MacOSX/environment.plist -- that is, once you log out and log back in
again. Restarting the finder is not sufficient.

OK, at long last here is the actual Apple Script. Beware of the fact
that the software which renders this documentation may wrap or truncate
lines. You may want to start with F<eg/droplet> instead.

 -- field the drop event
 on open argv
 	
 	-- Make the file names into strings containing quoted POSIX file names, and concatenate them with spaces between.
 	set shell_argv to ""
 	repeat with arg in argv
 		set shell_argv to shell_argv & " " & quoted form of POSIX path of arg
 	end repeat
 	
 	-- Our Perl script is droplet.PL in the Resources directory of the application bundle.
 	set perl_script to quoted form of POSIX path of (path to resource "droplet.PL")
 	
 	-- Run the Perl script. The file names appear in @ARGV. Its output to STDOUT is captured in result.
 	set result to do shell script perl_script & shell_argv
 	
 	-- Display a dialog containing the result.
 	display dialog result as string
 	
 end open

=head1 AUTHOR

Thomas R. Wyant, III F<wyant at cpan dot org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2016 by Thomas R. Wyant, III

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl 5.10.0. For more details, see the full text
of the licenses in the directory LICENSES.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut

# ex: set textwidth=72 :
